thank you for watching liking commenting
sharing and subscribing right now
earlier today a user in the chatroom
known as Big John Midland was asking a
question specifically related to
processors says Chris
my computer has Intel Pentium dual core
what does the dual core part mean dual
as most people know means too sometimes
the word duo
is also 2 and quad for octo 8 and we're
all dealing with similar terms in terms
of new processors that are being
released dual core is essentially two
processors on one die and the advantage
of this is that you can get twice the
amount of processing power normally if
the software hasn't been optimized for
multiple processor platform the speed
difference between a single core system
and a dual core system or something with
one processor versus two or more
processors isn't going to be as great if
you have a lot of multimedia
applications video audio even things
dealing with digital photos or images
chances are those vendors software
developers have optimized that software
for the dual core or two processors or
beyond already I mean people have had
two processor systems for so long it's
just been so expensive then the
technology hadn't advanced to the point
where they could get two processors on
one die now that's exactly what it means
dual quad octo these are all systems
that are readily available I don't know
how ready but they are available someone
when we were going over this earlier
asked the question should they trim it
oh thanks for the thanks for that note
of confidence guest said that I was very
happy a couple seconds ago in case you
missed that thank you I am actually very
happy the anyway via he was asking if
he'd trade his single core Mac for a new
dual core or something what are the core
2 duos the advantage yeah you you may
get you know a lot of you know a lot
more out of your your hardware but you
know for the most part we haven't gotten
to the point where
you know it's twice it is twice as fast
some people would argue the opposite but
for most working day applications like
web surfing email and whatnot going
between a single core and a dual core
the difference is not all that great
at least that's been my experience and
I'm sure benchmarks would lead you to
believe otherwise but there's something
to be said about actually using a system
with the software in that environment
compared to you know reading numbers and
that say well this is twice as fast well
in theory it may be twice as fast my
recommendation if you were going to wait
specifically on a Macbook I would wait I
would rather wait for the next release
of OS 10 leopard which will knock on
would be in a few months to actually
upgrade and get a new system then I
would upgrade to get a new processor up
until last year I was still running on
an Intel Pentium 4 the first hyper
threaded processor that they released I
think was the 3 gigahertz and just
recently it had upgraded well I'm
running a quad FX system and be quite
effective right now and in the
differences there they're noticeable but
not like huge night and day like
differences that you would necessarily
notice when it comes to as I said before
audio video multimedia heavy
applications and in some in some cases
disk operations or applications that
really write to the disk a lot a faster
system usually does translate into more
productivity so I guess that's the
that's what the dual core means is it is
it worth doing yeah if you if you're
wanting to upgrade now and it's been a
while sure it's worth doing but again it
all really depends on you know how much
you want to spend is is the gigahertz
everything it's cracked up to be which
is I guess that's the next question that
would probably spring to mind
not really just because you have a
faster system processor I mean every
other part of that system is going to be
just as important including the way that
commands are handled by the actual
processor the input of the commands and
and that's the large difference between
Intel Intel's multiple core systems and
AMD's multiple core systems and by and
large again it boils down to software
and which software has specifically been
optimized for one
form or one processor type over another